# ADIwg Metadata Standard

In 2010, ADIwg adopted a set of common fields for use in exchanging discovery level information about the who, what, when and where of projects in Alaska. In order to expedite the exchange of information, these fields were mapped to an Extensible Markup Language (XML) schema. Some agencies provide project information as static XML documents and others have implemented RESTful endpoints to facilitate access to updated information.

The original version of ADIwg Project metadata mapped many of the fields to the Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) metadata standard and Keyhole Markup Language (KML) for spatial domain information. Due to the importance of data integration with our national and international partners, ADIwg has since updated our project and data metadata profile to be based on the ISO 19115/19110 family of metadata standards.  Due to the complexity of the ISO standards, ADIwg chose simplify implementation by creating an ISO-compatible JSON standard. The JSON serves as a lightweight alternative for sharing metadata amongst ADIwg members. The mdTranslator application allows conversion to other formats for sharing with external partners.

The ADIwg metadata content, structure, and semantics are documented in the [class diagram](https://github.com/adiwg/adiwg-metadata/tree/master/iso/19115-2/schema) and [data dictionary](https://github.com/adiwg/adiwg-metadata/tree/master/iso/19115-2/dictionary). Both of these resources are available in the [ADIwg github site](https://github.com/adiwg), along with examples of robust ADIwg metadata records.
